src/main/com/fulcrologic/fulcro/dom/DOMInputs.adoc, before:

= The Problems with DOM Inputs

React users (developers of libraries and applications) often struggle with DOM Inputs.  The idea of controlled
inputs is highly desirable from a functional-programming standpoint, and brings a lot of clarity to your application;
however, the real OS-level input that you see in the browser is *actually* controlled by the browser, and our attempts
at taking over that control, as you'll see, are somewhat difficult.

== Who Controls The Input?

On the surface you might think this is a relatively simple question. After all, can't I just do something like
this in JS?

[source, javascript]
-----
input.value = "hello";
-----

Of course the answer is "yes". You've told that input who's boss.  Or have you?

=== Browser Inputs

At the core of most browsers the on-screen inputs are meant to be interactive. The browser allows the user to use
all manner of input methods (everything from typing foreign languages to selecting a date in an HTML5 input). The
localization concerns alone mean that a key on the keyboard may not end up actually triggering *any* visible event to
your application (some languages, like Chinese, require you to type multiple keys to get a single character of input).

The real model of what is going on looks something like this:

[ditaa]
-----
                                 Browser   <-------------------------------------------------------+
              OS input evts     +--------------+    HARD WRITES                                    |
    User ---------------------->|              +----------+                                        |
                                +--+-----------+          |                                        |
 +----------------+    onChange    |                      |      DOM Input Node (has .value)       |
 | JS Thread Queue| <--------------+                      |      --------------+                   |
 +--------+-------+                                       +------->            +-------------------+
          |                                                      |             |  User code (js) change
          | evt.target is dom node                               +-------------+
          v                                                            ^
  +-------------------+                                                |
  | User code         +------------------------------------------------+
  +-------------------+
-----

The point is that your user code (whether it be code you wrote, or code in a library you're using) is coming
"late to the game". Your code will always run *after* the real browser has put *real stuff* in the DOM node.

If your user code tells the input to change, then *bad things happen to focused inputs*. The most common
manifestation of this problem is that the cursor jumps to the end of the input, so your user puts their cursor
in the middle of the content `abc|f` and presses `d` followed by `e` and the two updates look like
`abcdf|` followed by `abcdfe`. Needless to say, you're getting a bug report from an end user.

=== How React "Deals" with It

React uses a somewhat magical approach: If you read the Forms documentation carefully, you'll see that *all uses of
controlled inputs are done through component local state*. This is *not* a coincidence. The lifecycle of React is
specifically designed so that calls to `setState` done synchronously will happen *before* trying to re-sync to the DOM,
and the implementation of input synchronization *does nothing* if the input's value is already what you want it to be.
Read this
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28922275/in-reactjs-why-does-setstate-behave-differently-when-called-synchronously/28922465#28922465[full description]
for more information about how this causes headaches when your data update code runs asynchronously.

NOTE: I've noticed that Preact seems to behave better on this. I suspect that Preact checks the old input value
at the low-level DOM before setting a value, whereas stock React does a force write if what it *thinks* is there
differs from what you ask it to put there, causing cursor jumps.

Your alternative is to use "uncontrolled" inputs, where you have a ref to the DOM input and use
`defaultValue` to give an initial value.

Neither of these work well with external libraries like Fulcro to really
control the input asynchronously (transactional updates, websocket pushes, etc). All React wrappers have
this problem. See, for example, the
https://github.com/reagent-project/reagent/blob/v0.10.0/src/reagent/impl/template.cljs#L140[100 lines of magic] that
Reagent does to handle this problem, and at the time of this writing there are open issues that indicate things like
Chinese not working well with it.

=== Fulcro's Approach

Fulcro's current approach to this problem isn't fully ideal, and this document is a clarification of the
problem statement so that perhaps we can come up with a better solution.

The general approach is as follows:

- Wrap all inputs "behind the scenes" with a React Component in Fulcro that "buffers" the input value.
** Wrap onChange so that incoming evt.target.value is cached in component-local state
** If an async update to the `value` of our fake input matches what
   we've cached, then do nothing.
- The wrapper must also do some magic to make sure `:ref` is properly ferried through to the underlying real React input.

There are a number of problems with this approach:

* If the async code modified the value in some way (e.g. upper-cased it) then the cursor will still jump, since
any set of `.value` on the real DOM input will do that.
* Delayed sequences of async updates may report a sequence of changes to the input that has "already happened".

For example:

* You put your cursor in front of an input's value, which is currently "12"
* You type "a" "b" very quickly
** The first event updates component-local state to "a12" and *submits* a tx w/"a12" (tx 1)
** The second event updates component-local state to "ab12" and *submits* a tx w/"ab12" (tx 2)
** js processes tx 1, and sends the new value to your component as "a12". This mismatches what is
in the component-local state *and* what is on the DOM. React updates the DOM node. The cursor jumps to the end.
The component-local state is now "a12"
* You type "c"
** The event updates component-local state to "a12c" and *submits* a tx w/"a12c" (tx 3)
** js processes the tx 2, and sends the new value to your component as "ab12". React updates the
DOM node. The cursor was already at the end. The input now says "ab12"
** js processes the tx 3, and sends the new value to your component as "a12c". React updates the
DOM node. The cursor was already at the end. The input now says "a12c"

So, in that example sequence we both lost a character, mis-placed another, and moved the user's cursor.

If you study Reagent's solution, they juggle the DOM node's real value, and do things like reset the cursor position. That
may in fact be the best solution.

== Summary

* Setting the `.value` prop on a real DOM node causes cursor to jump
* React avoids doing that when using component-local state and synchronous updates
* Libraries that manage application state and want to control inputs cause async sets of React's VDOM value on inputs,
which can lead to sets of real DOM node `.value`, leading to bad user experience.

== Some Rough Ideas:

There are a number of possible issues we need to deal with:

* The change event on an input, once processed by Fulcro, results in a transformed value (e.g. upper-cased input). This
use-case means we *always* need to set the input's raw `.value` property, causing a cursor jump.
* As shown in the example earlier: the results of transactions can "flow in" over time. Having a cached local state value
isn't quite enough, though a short *history* of recent changes could allow us to prevent overwrites...unfortunately,
that's a heuristic that can probably fail in weird ways.
* Ideally we let the user type as quickly as possible, independent of how slowly transaction processing is going. This
gives a good user responsiveness feel. Right now transactions happen on a periodic basis (rapid submissions will process
something like 30x/sec). We could add a tx debounce that would prevent tx processing on rapid keystrokes.
** Debounced tx processing would mean that the input content, if morphed by tx processing, would get behind. Perhaps a special
Fulcro input could streamline that processing (perhaps into a synchronous form?). Imagine we could mark a transaction
as syncrhonous, and immediately read state so that we're putting the correct value in the input immediately?

Commit message:

Major Interesting Improvements: - Added `transact!` open `:synchronous?` which allows for use of raw inputs without cursor jumping, and with much faster performance. - Added `transact!!` as a shorthand for turning on sync option in `transact!` - Added compiler option `:wrap-inputs?` to switch DOM to generate raw inputs. Defaults to true for bw compat. - Added compiler option `:default-to-hooks?` to enable hooks by default on `defsc`. - Changed mutation helpers to use `transact!!` - Formalized props tunneling API into `comp/tunnel-props!`

src/main/com/fulcrologic/fulcro/dom/DOMInputs.adoc, after:

= The Problems with DOM Inputs

React users (developers of libraries and applications) often struggle with DOM Inputs.  The idea of controlled
inputs is highly desirable from a functional-programming standpoint, and brings a lot of clarity to your application;
however, the real OS-level input that you see in the browser is *actually* controlled by the browser, and our attempts
at taking over that control, as you'll see, are somewhat difficult.

== Who Controls The Input?

On the surface you might think this is a relatively simple question. After all, can't I just do something like
this in JS?

[source, javascript]
-----
input.value = "hello";
-----

Of course the answer is "yes". You've told that input who's boss.  Or have you?

=== Browser Inputs

At the core of most browsers the on-screen inputs are meant to be interactive. The browser allows the user to use
all manner of input methods (everything from typing foreign languages to selecting a date in an HTML5 input). The
localization concerns alone mean that a key on the keyboard may not end up actually triggering *any* visible event to
your application (some languages, like Chinese, require you to type multiple keys to get a single character of input).

The real model of what is going on looks something like this:

[ditaa]
-----
                                 Browser   <-------------------------------------------------------+
              OS input evts     +--------------+    HARD WRITES                                    |
    User ---------------------->|              +----------+                                        |
                                +--+-----------+          |                                        |
 +----------------+    onChange    |                      |      DOM Input Node (has .value)       |
 | JS Thread Queue| <--------------+                      |      --------------+                   |
 +--------+-------+                                       +------->            +-------------------+
          |                                                      |             |  User code (js) change
          | evt.target is dom node                               +-------------+
          v                                                            ^
  +-------------------+                                                |
  | User code         +------------------------------------------------+
  +-------------------+
-----

The point is that your user code (whether it be code you wrote, or code in a library you're using) is coming
"late to the game". Your code will always run *after* the real browser has put *real stuff* in the DOM node.

If your user code tells the input to change, then *bad things happen to focused inputs*. The most common
manifestation of this problem is that the cursor jumps to the end of the input, so your user puts their cursor
in the middle of the content `abc|f` and presses `d` followed by `e` and the two updates look like
`abcdf|` followed by `abcdfe`. Needless to say, you're getting a bug report from an end user.

=== How React "Deals" with It

React uses a somewhat magical approach: If you read the Forms documentation carefully, you'll see that *all uses of
controlled inputs are done through component local state*. This is *not* a coincidence. The lifecycle of React is
specifically designed so that calls to `setState` done synchronously will happen *before* trying to re-sync to the DOM,
and the implementation of input synchronization *does nothing* if the input's value is already what you want it to be.
Read this
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28922275/in-reactjs-why-does-setstate-behave-differently-when-called-synchronously/28922465#28922465[full description]
for more information about how this causes headaches when your data update code runs asynchronously.

NOTE: I've noticed that Preact seems to behave better on this. I suspect that Preact checks the old input value
at the low-level DOM before setting a value, whereas stock React does a force write if what it *thinks* is there
differs from what you ask it to put there, causing cursor jumps.

Your alternative is to use "uncontrolled" inputs, where you have a ref to the DOM input and use
`defaultValue` to give an initial value.

Neither of these work well with external libraries like Fulcro to really
control the input asynchronously (transactional updates, websocket pushes, etc). All React wrappers have
this problem. See, for example, the
https://github.com/reagent-project/reagent/blob/v0.10.0/src/reagent/impl/template.cljs#L140[100 lines of magic] that
Reagent does to handle this problem, and at the time of this writing there are open issues that indicate things like
Chinese not working well with it.

=== Fulcro's Approach

Fulcro's current approach to this problem isn't fully ideal, and this document is a clarification of the
problem statement so that perhaps we can come up with a better solution.

The general approach is as follows:

- Wrap all inputs "behind the scenes" with a React Component in Fulcro that "buffers" the input value.
** Wrap onChange so that incoming evt.target.value is cached in component-local state
** If an async update to the `value` of our fake input matches what
   we've cached, then do nothing.
- The wrapper must also do some magic to make sure `:ref` is properly ferried through to the underlying real React input.

There are a number of problems with this approach:

* If the async code modified the value in some way (e.g. upper-cased it) then the cursor will still jump, since
any set of `.value` on the real DOM input will do that.
* Delayed sequences of async updates may report a sequence of changes to the input that has "already happened".

For example:

* You put your cursor in front of an input's value, which is currently "12"
* You type "a" "b" very quickly
** The first event updates component-local state to "a12" and *submits* a tx w/"a12" (tx 1)
** The second event updates component-local state to "ab12" and *submits* a tx w/"ab12" (tx 2)
** js processes tx 1, and sends the new value to your component as "a12". This mismatches what is
in the component-local state *and* what is on the DOM. React updates the DOM node. The cursor jumps to the end.
The component-local state is now "a12"
* You type "c"
** The event updates component-local state to "a12c" and *submits* a tx w/"a12c" (tx 3)
** js processes the tx 2, and sends the new value to your component as "ab12". React updates the
DOM node. The cursor was already at the end. The input now says "ab12"
** js processes the tx 3, and sends the new value to your component as "a12c". React updates the
DOM node. The cursor was already at the end. The input now says "a12c"

So, in that example sequence we both lost a character, mis-placed another, and moved the user's cursor.

If you study Reagent's solution, they juggle the DOM node's real value, and do things like reset the cursor position. That
may in fact be the best solution.

== Summary

* Setting the `.value` prop on a real DOM node causes cursor to jump
* React avoids doing that when using component-local state and synchronous updates
* Libraries that manage application state and want to control inputs cause async sets of React's VDOM value on inputs,
which can lead to sets of real DOM node `.value`, leading to bad user experience.

== Solution

It turns out that Fulcro already had a great solution for this that follows the React suggested
use exactly. Even though Fulcro normally does asynchronous transactions to update app state, there
is nothing that says we cannot override that via an option. Running a purely optimistic mutation
against the state atom is fast and harmless.

Fulcro's rendering optimizations also support the idea of props tunneling, where new versions of
a component's props are sent through React's `setState` on that component. Thus, the solution
is quite simple:

1. Add `:synchronous? true` as an option to `transact!` and have it mean "run the optimistic part of
this transaction synchronously and update my props".
2. The implementation can simply pull the query and ident from `this` re-create the UI props for
the component after the optimistic actions, and tunnel them to the component.

If this all happens on the thread that is handling an event, then React will just do the right thing,
and raw inputs will behave as expected with no magic at all.
