docs/CheatSheet.adoc, before:

= Fulcro Cheat Sheet

== Common Namespaces

- `[fulcro.client.core :as fc]`: Primary Fulcro namespace
- `[fulcro.client.data-fetch :as df]`: Fulcro functions for loading data from remotes.
- `[fulcro.client.mutations :as m]`: Fulcro mutations and mutation definition macro.
- `[fulcro.client.util :as fu]`: Some helper functions
- `[om.next :as om]`: Primary Om Next namespace
- `[om.dom :as dom]`: HTML5 React factories
- `[fulcro.server :as server]`: Fulcro server primitives.
- `[fulcro.easy-server :as easy]`: Fulcro's one-step web server.
- `[com.stuartsierra.component :as component]`: Component control and dependency injection

== Defining Components

```
(om/defui ComponentName
  static om/IQuery
  (query [this] [:prop {:child (om/get-query Child)}])
  static om/Ident
  (ident [this props] [:TABLE ID])
  static fc/InitialAppState
  (initial-state [class params] {:prop scalar-value :child (fc/get-initial-state Child {})})
  Object
  ; React component methods (optional, see React docs):
  (initLocalState [this] ...)
  (shouldComponentUpdate [this next-props next-state] ...)
  (componentWillReceiveProps [this next-props] ...)
  (componentWillUpdate [this next-props next-state] ...)
  (componentDidUpdate [this prev-props prev-state] ...)
  (componentWillMount [this] ...)
  (componentDidMount [this] ...)
  (componentWillUnmount [this] ...)
  (render [this]
    (let [{:keys [prop child]} (om/props this)
          {:keys [onSelect]    (om/get-computed this)]
      ; render prop and child
      (dom/div nil
        (dom/span nil prop)
        (ui-child child)))))
```

```
(def ui-component-name (om/factory ComponentName {:keyfn :id-prop}))
```

```
(ui-component-name raw-props)
;; or, if callbacks and such are needed:
(ui-component-name (om/computed raw-props {:onSelect (fn [] ...)))
```

==== Shortcut Macro for Stateful Components

The `defsc` macro builds a `defui` with a query, ident (optional), initial state (optional), forms support (optional),
arbitrary additional protocols (optional), co-located css (optional),
and an argument list that gives you access to destructured props, computed data, and react children.
All this in one very compact form. It also looks like a `defn` (for IDE integration) and checks for common errors:

```
(defsc Person
  "Docstring"
  [this {:keys [person/name] :as props} {:keys [onSelect] :as computed-props} children]
  { :query [:person/id :person/name {:person/job (om/get-query Job)}]
    :ident [:PERSON/by-id :person/id]
    :form-fields [(f/id-field :person/id) ...] ; See forms support
    :css [] ; garden css
    :css-include [] ;see fulcro-css
    :protocols [Object  ; arbitrary additional protocols
                (my-method [this] ...)]
    :initial-state {:person/name :param/name
                    :person/job {:id 2 :name "Programmer"}
                    :person/id :param/id} }
  (dom/div #js {:onClick onSelect} name))
```

==== Trick for helping with computed props:

```
(let [factory (om/factory ComponentName {:keyfn :id-prop})]
  (defn ui-component-name [props & {:keys [onSelect] :as computed-props}]
    (factory (om/computed props computed-props))))
```

allows more readable `(ui-component-name props :onDelete (fn [e] ...))`. Other variations are possible,
especially if you intend to use children.

==== React Children

- `(om/children this)` - Returns a (possibly empty) sequence of child elements sent to the React factory.
- `(fu/react-instance? Component child)` - Returns true if child is a react element of the given type.
- `(fu/first-node Component children)` - Returns the first react child of class Component, or nil.

```
(defui Heading
  ...)
(def ui-heading (om/factory Heading))

(defui Note ...)
(def ui-note (om/factory Note))

(defui NotePanel
  Object
  (render [this]
    (let [children (om/children this)
          heading (first-node Heading children)
          notes (filter #(react-instance? Note %) children)]
      (dom/div nil
        (dom/h4 nil heading)
        (map ui-note notes)
        ...))))
(def ui-note-panel ...)

...
(ui-note-panel note-panel-props ; parent
  (ui-heading heading-props) ; children
  (ui-note note-props)
  (ui-note note-props-2)
  ...)
```

== Sanity Checklist

- `render` returns exactly *one* react element (which can have any number of direct children).
- Every component that has state has it's *own* query. The following are errors:
  - `(query [this] (om/get-query OtherComponent))`
  - `(query [this] [(om/get-query OtherComponent)])`
  - `(query [this] [{:some-join (concat (om/get-query OtherComponent) (om/get-query AnotherComponent))}]`
- Every child's query is composed in using an "invented" join name in the parent:
  - `(query [this] [{:invented-join-prop (om/get-query Child)}])`
- Queries compose all the way to a single Root
- Every child's props are pulled from `om/props` and passed to that child's factory for rendering:
+
```
(render [this]
  (let [{:keys [invented-join-prop]} (om/props this)]
    (ui-child invented-join-prop)))
```
- If using initial state, the `InitialAppState` mirrors the component's query and composition all
the way to the root of your application state. That is to say that for each scalar property
queried there will be a scalar value in the initial state map, and for every join in the query
there will be a key in the initial state whose value is the `get-initial-state` of the child
in the query join.
+
```
static fc/InitialAppState
(initial-state [c p] {:scalar-prop 42 :child-props (fc/get-initial-state Child {})})
static om/IQuery
(query [this] [:scalar-prop {:child-props (om/get-query Child)}])
```
- Every component that has state (except your root) *should* have an `Ident`. Exceptions
are possible but rare.
- More than one component can use the same ident. This is common. PersonListView, PersonDetail,
PersonSummary might all have the same `[:person/by-id id]` style ident.
- If you need the same initial state in more than one place, put it there! All versions of the same
(duplicated) tree in initial app state will merge and normalize into the same spot at startup.
   - Ensure that duplicated initial state tree components share idents.

== Queries

Regular queries are held in a vector, which can contain:

- `:prop`: Retrive a scalar value
- `{:join-name (om/get-query Child)}`: Join in the query for some child.

Union queries are a map of sub-queries. Union queries require you encapsulate them
in a union component. They stand for alternation, and use the component ident's TABLE during
query processing to determine which query to continue.

`{:TABLE-1 (om/get-query Component-1) :TABLE-2 (om/get-query Component-2) ...}`

== Advanced Queries

- `{[CHILD-TABLE ID] (om/get-query Child)}`: Query for a specific `Child` from that child's state
table. Not relative to a parent's graph edges.
- `[ROOT-PROP '_]`: Query for a specific scalar property from the root of the database graph. The
quoting is needed so `_` is not evaluated.
- `(:prop {:x 1})`: Query for a given scala property, and include the given map as parameters. Fulcro
client, by default, ignores such parameters, but a server can easily use them.
- `({:join-prop (om/get-query Child)} {:x 1})`: Send parameters with a join query. Again, client
ignores these by default, but server queries may find them useful.

== Mutation

Mutations receive the entire state map, and parameters passed from `om/transact!`. They
must have at least one `action` and/or `remote`. If both `action` and `remote` are
present, then `action` must be listed first.

- `action` is an optimistic update that will run and complete before remote processing.
- `remote` is an instruction to mirror the mutation to the stated remote(s). You may
specify any number of remotes in a single mutation.
- `true` for a remote means send the exact client mutation. Returning an AST allows you to
alter the request to the server. See Om Next documentation on the AST and the functions
`om/ast->query` and `query->ast` for ideas.


```
(m/defmutation sym
  docstring?
  [param-map]
  (action [{:keys [state] :as env}]
    (swap! state f))
  (remote-name [{:keys [ast] :as env}] true-or-ast))
```

`sym` will default to the declaring namespace, but can be explicitly namespaced. The
default and most common `remote-name` in Fulcro is `remote`. If you have defined others then those
are what you use to trigger remote mutations to that remote.

Underneath this is just a `defmethod`, so you may also declare mutations as:

```
(defmethod m/mutate `sym [env k params]
   {:action (fn [] ...)
    :remote-name true })
```

but this is discouraged as it is more error-prone, and IDE's cannot support it as well.

== Data Fetch

If everything has an ident, then every component is stored in a table and idents
make up the edges of your graph. This enables a very small number of load primitives
capable of doing any kind of remote interaction desired. The first three below allow
you to load anything to anywhere. The remainder give you additional control and morphing
abilities:

- `(load comp-or-app :prop Component)` - Load the given `:prop` into the root node of the client graph database using graph query of `Component`.
- `(load comp-or-app :prop Component {:target [TABLE ID FIELD]})` - Load the given Component subgraph into
the targeted entity at the given field.
- `(load comp-or-app [COMPONENT-TABLE ID] Component)` - Load a specific instance of a component.
- `(load comp-or-app :prop Component {:post-mutation sym})` - Load the given Component subgraph into the root, but run
the indicated mutation (`sym`) once load completes to reshape the db in arbitrary ways.
- `(load comp-or-app :prop nil)` - Load the given root scalar property (not graph)
- `(load comp-or-app :prop Component {:without #{:kw}})` - Load the given subgraph, but elide any subtree or scalar known as `:kw`. E.g. Load a blog without comments.
- `(load-field comp :kw)` - MUST be run in the context of a component with an ident: Load the subgraph of the current
component that appears in it's query as `:kw`. E.g. Load the comments of a blog.

Other interesting options (placed in the 4th argument option map):

- `:parallel true` - Skip the sequential queue and load as soon as possible
- `:marker false` - Don't put a load marker into state
- `:post-mutation-params {}` - Include some parameters for the post mutation when it runs
- `:remote :remote-name` - Target a specific remote for handling the load (defaults to a remote name of `:remote`).

== Server Query

Process a query for a property (e.g. `(load this :prop Comp)`):

```
(server/defquery-root :prop
  "docstring"
  (value [env params] query-result))
```

Process a query for a specific entity (e.g. `(load [TABLE ID] Comp)`):

```
(server/defquery-entity TABLE
  "docstring"
  (value [env ID params] query-result))
```

== Server Mutation

Server mutations take the same form as client mutations, though `env` will be
a server environment with optional component injections.

```
(server/defmutation sym
  "docstring"
  [params]
  (action [env] ...))
```

== Easy Server

```
(def my-server (atom (easy/make-fulcro-server
                       :config-path "resource-or-disk-path-to-edn-file"
                       ; Extra components (databases, etc.)
                       :components {:component-key (map->Component {})
                                    ...}
                       ; components available in query/mutation env:
                       :parser-injections #{:component-key :config})))
```

starting/stopping the server:

```
(swap! my-server component/start)
(swap! my-server component/stop)
```

Commit message:

updated load docs to reflect new env augments

docs/CheatSheet.adoc, after:

= Fulcro Cheat Sheet

== Common Namespaces

- `[fulcro.client.core :as fc]`: Primary Fulcro namespace
- `[fulcro.client.data-fetch :as df]`: Fulcro functions for loading data from remotes.
- `[fulcro.client.mutations :as m]`: Fulcro mutations and mutation definition macro.
- `[fulcro.client.util :as fu]`: Some helper functions
- `[om.next :as om]`: Primary Om Next namespace
- `[om.dom :as dom]`: HTML5 React factories
- `[fulcro.server :as server]`: Fulcro server primitives.
- `[fulcro.easy-server :as easy]`: Fulcro's one-step web server.
- `[com.stuartsierra.component :as component]`: Component control and dependency injection

== Defining Components

```
(om/defui ComponentName
  static om/IQuery
  (query [this] [:prop {:child (om/get-query Child)}])
  static om/Ident
  (ident [this props] [:TABLE ID])
  static fc/InitialAppState
  (initial-state [class params] {:prop scalar-value :child (fc/get-initial-state Child {})})
  Object
  ; React component methods (optional, see React docs):
  (initLocalState [this] ...)
  (shouldComponentUpdate [this next-props next-state] ...)
  (componentWillReceiveProps [this next-props] ...)
  (componentWillUpdate [this next-props next-state] ...)
  (componentDidUpdate [this prev-props prev-state] ...)
  (componentWillMount [this] ...)
  (componentDidMount [this] ...)
  (componentWillUnmount [this] ...)
  (render [this]
    (let [{:keys [prop child]} (om/props this)
          {:keys [onSelect]    (om/get-computed this)]
      ; render prop and child
      (dom/div nil
        (dom/span nil prop)
        (ui-child child)))))
```

```
(def ui-component-name (om/factory ComponentName {:keyfn :id-prop}))
```

```
(ui-component-name raw-props)
;; or, if callbacks and such are needed:
(ui-component-name (om/computed raw-props {:onSelect (fn [] ...)))
```

==== Shortcut Macro for Stateful Components

The `defsc` macro builds a `defui` with a query, ident (optional), initial state (optional), forms support (optional),
arbitrary additional protocols (optional), co-located css (optional),
and an argument list that gives you access to destructured props, computed data, and react children.
All this in one very compact form. It also looks like a `defn` (for IDE integration) and checks for common errors:

```
(defsc Person
  "Docstring"
  [this {:keys [person/name] :as props} {:keys [onSelect] :as computed-props} children]
  { :query [:person/id :person/name {:person/job (om/get-query Job)}]
    :ident [:PERSON/by-id :person/id]
    :form-fields [(f/id-field :person/id) ...] ; See forms support
    :css [] ; garden css
    :css-include [] ;see fulcro-css
    :protocols [Object  ; arbitrary additional protocols
                (my-method [this] ...)]
    :initial-state {:person/name :param/name
                    :person/job {:id 2 :name "Programmer"}
                    :person/id :param/id} }
  (dom/div #js {:onClick onSelect} name))
```

==== Trick for helping with computed props:

```
(let [factory (om/factory ComponentName {:keyfn :id-prop})]
  (defn ui-component-name [props & {:keys [onSelect] :as computed-props}]
    (factory (om/computed props computed-props))))
```

allows more readable `(ui-component-name props :onDelete (fn [e] ...))`. Other variations are possible,
especially if you intend to use children.

==== React Children

- `(om/children this)` - Returns a (possibly empty) sequence of child elements sent to the React factory.
- `(fu/react-instance? Component child)` - Returns true if child is a react element of the given type.
- `(fu/first-node Component children)` - Returns the first react child of class Component, or nil.

```
(defui Heading
  ...)
(def ui-heading (om/factory Heading))

(defui Note ...)
(def ui-note (om/factory Note))

(defui NotePanel
  Object
  (render [this]
    (let [children (om/children this)
          heading (first-node Heading children)
          notes (filter #(react-instance? Note %) children)]
      (dom/div nil
        (dom/h4 nil heading)
        (map ui-note notes)
        ...))))
(def ui-note-panel ...)

...
(ui-note-panel note-panel-props ; parent
  (ui-heading heading-props) ; children
  (ui-note note-props)
  (ui-note note-props-2)
  ...)
```

== Sanity Checklist

- `render` returns exactly *one* react element (which can have any number of direct children).
- Every component that has state has it's *own* query. The following are errors:
  - `(query [this] (om/get-query OtherComponent))`
  - `(query [this] [(om/get-query OtherComponent)])`
  - `(query [this] [{:some-join (concat (om/get-query OtherComponent) (om/get-query AnotherComponent))}]`
- Every child's query is composed in using an "invented" join name in the parent:
  - `(query [this] [{:invented-join-prop (om/get-query Child)}])`
- Queries compose all the way to a single Root
- Every child's props are pulled from `om/props` and passed to that child's factory for rendering:
+
```
(render [this]
  (let [{:keys [invented-join-prop]} (om/props this)]
    (ui-child invented-join-prop)))
```
- If using initial state, the `InitialAppState` mirrors the component's query and composition all
the way to the root of your application state. That is to say that for each scalar property
queried there will be a scalar value in the initial state map, and for every join in the query
there will be a key in the initial state whose value is the `get-initial-state` of the child
in the query join.
+
```
static fc/InitialAppState
(initial-state [c p] {:scalar-prop 42 :child-props (fc/get-initial-state Child {})})
static om/IQuery
(query [this] [:scalar-prop {:child-props (om/get-query Child)}])
```
- Every component that has state (except your root) *should* have an `Ident`. Exceptions
are possible but rare.
- More than one component can use the same ident. This is common. PersonListView, PersonDetail,
PersonSummary might all have the same `[:person/by-id id]` style ident.
- If you need the same initial state in more than one place, put it there! All versions of the same
(duplicated) tree in initial app state will merge and normalize into the same spot at startup.
   - Ensure that duplicated initial state tree components share idents.

== Queries

Regular queries are held in a vector, which can contain:

- `:prop`: Retrive a scalar value
- `{:join-name (om/get-query Child)}`: Join in the query for some child.

Union queries are a map of sub-queries. Union queries require you encapsulate them
in a union component. They stand for alternation, and use the component ident's TABLE during
query processing to determine which query to continue.

`{:TABLE-1 (om/get-query Component-1) :TABLE-2 (om/get-query Component-2) ...}`

== Advanced Queries

- `{[CHILD-TABLE ID] (om/get-query Child)}`: Query for a specific `Child` from that child's state
table. Not relative to a parent's graph edges.
- `[ROOT-PROP '_]`: Query for a specific scalar property from the root of the database graph. The
quoting is needed so `_` is not evaluated.
- `(:prop {:x 1})`: Query for a given scala property, and include the given map as parameters. Fulcro
client, by default, ignores such parameters, but a server can easily use them.
- `({:join-prop (om/get-query Child)} {:x 1})`: Send parameters with a join query. Again, client
ignores these by default, but server queries may find them useful.

== Mutation

Mutations receive the entire state map, and parameters passed from `om/transact!`. They
must have at least one `action` and/or `remote`. If both `action` and `remote` are
present, then `action` must be listed first.

- `action` is an optimistic update that will run and complete before remote processing.
- `remote` is an instruction to mirror the mutation to the stated remote(s). You may
specify any number of remotes in a single mutation.
- `true` for a remote means send the exact client mutation. Returning an AST allows you to
alter the request to the server. See Om Next documentation on the AST and the functions
`om/ast->query` and `query->ast` for ideas.


```
(m/defmutation sym
  docstring?
  [param-map]
  (action [{:keys [state] :as env}]
    (swap! state f))
  (remote-name [{:keys [ast] :as env}] true-or-ast))
```

`sym` will default to the declaring namespace, but can be explicitly namespaced. The
default and most common `remote-name` in Fulcro is `remote`. If you have defined others then those
are what you use to trigger remote mutations to that remote.

Underneath this is just a `defmethod`, so you may also declare mutations as:

```
(defmethod m/mutate `sym [env k params]
   {:action (fn [] ...)
    :remote-name true })
```

but this is discouraged as it is more error-prone, and IDE's cannot support it as well.

== Data Fetch

If everything has an ident, then every component is stored in a table and idents
make up the edges of your graph. This enables a very small number of load primitives
capable of doing any kind of remote interaction desired. The first three below allow
you to load anything to anywhere. The remainder give you additional control and morphing
abilities:

- `(load comp-or-app :prop Component)` - Load the given `:prop` into the root node of the client graph database using graph query of `Component`.
- `(load comp-or-app :prop Component {:target [TABLE ID FIELD]})` - Load the given Component subgraph into
the targeted entity at the given field.
- `(load comp-or-app [COMPONENT-TABLE ID] Component)` - Load a specific instance of a component.
- `(load comp-or-app :prop Component {:post-mutation sym})` - Load the given Component subgraph into the root, but run
the indicated mutation (`sym`) once load completes to reshape the db in arbitrary ways.
- `(load comp-or-app :prop nil)` - Load the given root scalar property (not graph)
- `(load comp-or-app :prop Component {:without #{:kw}})` - Load the given subgraph, but elide any subtree or scalar known as `:kw`. E.g. Load a blog without comments.
- `(load-field comp :kw)` - MUST be run in the context of a component with an ident: Load the subgraph of the current
component that appears in it's query as `:kw`. E.g. Load the comments of a blog.

Other interesting options (placed in the 4th argument option map):

- `:parallel true` - Skip the sequential queue and load as soon as possible
- `:marker false` - Don't put a load marker into state
- `:post-mutation-params {}` - Include some parameters for the post mutation when it runs
- `:remote :remote-name` - Target a specific remote for handling the load (defaults to a remote name of `:remote`).

=== Data Fetch within Mutations

Within a mutation you can queue one or more loads by called `load-action` or `load-field-action`.
Be sure to include `remote-load` in the remote to trigger network processing.

```
(defmutation my-mutation [params]
  (action [env]
    (df/load-action env :prop Component options))
  (remote [env] (df/remote-load env)))
```

All arguments and `options` are identical to the options for regular `load`, except for the first one
(mutation `env` instead of a component).

NOTE: The `:remote` in `options` is the remote for the load. It doesn't matter which `remote` you trigger
with `remote-load`, they'll all be checked for loads. Thus, you can trigger loads from multiple different
remotes, but need only have one `remote` section of `defmutation`.

== Server Query

Process a query for a property (e.g. `(load this :prop Comp)`):

```
(server/defquery-root :prop
  "docstring"
  (value [env params] query-result))
```

Process a query for a specific entity (e.g. `(load [TABLE ID] Comp)`):

```
(server/defquery-entity TABLE
  "docstring"
  (value [env ID params] query-result))
```

== Server Mutation

Server mutations take the same form as client mutations, though `env` will be
a server environment with optional component injections.

```
(server/defmutation sym
  "docstring"
  [params]
  (action [env] ...))
```

== Easy Server

```
(def my-server (atom (easy/make-fulcro-server
                       :config-path "resource-or-disk-path-to-edn-file"
                       ; Extra components (databases, etc.)
                       :components {:component-key (map->Component {})
                                    ...}
                       ; components available in query/mutation env:
                       :parser-injections #{:component-key :config})))
```

starting/stopping the server:

```
(swap! my-server component/start)
(swap! my-server component/stop)
```
