docs/help.md, before:

# Getting Help

If you're just getting started, please be sure you've at least watched a few of the
[videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLVi9lDx-4C_T_gsmBQ_2gztvk6h_Usw6R) and tried
the [documentation](docs.html).

If you're still scratching your head and need someone to talk to, the best place to go
is the #fulcro [Clojurians Slack Channel](https://clojurians.slack.com/).

It is possible that someone has already asked your question, so it can be useful to search the 
[Clojurians Slack Archive](https://clojurians-log.clojureverse.org/).
I'd recommend using the following Google Search to find past converations:

```
site:https://clojurians-log.clojureverse.org/fulcro WHAT YOU WANT TO KNOW
```

which will target your results just to our channel.

## Commercial Support and Consulting

I'm available for consulting on an hourly basis at reasonable rates
(price based on level of difficulty and can be discounted based on the
number of hours needed). I
have experience doing training as well, and would be glad to help you
get your team up to speed!

Commit message:

touched up changes from Avisi
Took 1 hour 3 minutes

docs/help.md, after:

# Getting Help

If you're just getting started, please be sure you've at least watched a few of the
[videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLVi9lDx-4C_T_gsmBQ_2gztvk6h_Usw6R) and tried
the [documentation](docs.html).

If you're still scratching your head and need someone to talk to, the best place to go
is the #fulcro [Clojurians Slack Channel](https://clojurians.slack.com/).

It is possible that someone has already asked your question, so it can be useful to search the 
[Clojurians Slack Archive](https://clojurians-log.clojureverse.org/).
I'd recommend using the following Google Search to find past converations:

```
site:https://clojurians-log.clojureverse.org/fulcro WHAT YOU WANT TO KNOW
```

which will target your results just to our channel.

## Commercial Support and Consulting

[Fulcrologic, LLC](http://www.fulcrologic.com) is a consulting company
that specializes in consulting and training for Fulcro. They can provide
you with services ranging from on-site skills training and collaborative design
to code review and management education.
