docs/index.md, before:

# Untangled

Untangled is a library for building full-stack webapps using the Clojure and Clojurescript programming languages.
It leverages Om Next and a number of other libraries to provide a strongly cohesive story that has many 
advantages over techniques, libraries, and frameworks you might have used before.

## Is Untangled for me?

Evaluating tools for web development can be a monumental task. Untangled has a particular
set of strengths that may or may not be a good fit. To help you evaluate it, you might want to:

- Read about [the benefits of Untangled](benefits.html)
- Clone and play with the [Untangled Template](https://github.com/awkay/untangled-template) project.
- Clone and play with an Untangled (full-stack!) [TODOMVC](https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-todomvc). NOTE: This uses an older version of the library. It needs updating, but still works).
- Understand [how Untangled improves stock Om Next](vsom-next.html) (assumes you understand something about Om Next)
- Use the [Untangled Evaluation Spreadsheet](evaluation.html)

## What does it look Like?

There is a YouTube video playlist of relatively short videos that can help you get
started quickly and often clarifies things that people struggle with:
[Untangled Video Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLVi9lDx-4C_T_gsmBQ_2gztvk6h_Usw6R)

If you just want to get a quick look of what working in Untangled looks like you might check this one out (it assumes you know what you're doing to some extent, but
ignore the gory details and watch for the coolness):

- [Untangled In The Large - Component Development](https://youtu.be/uxI2XVgdDBU?list=PLVi9lDx-4C_T_gsmBQ_2gztvk6h_Usw6R)

Those who prefer to read should *still* check out the video at some point, but should then
proceed to a complete overview in the
[Getting Started](https://github.com/awkay/untangled/blob/develop/GettingStarted.adoc)
guide. Those that like videos are encouraged to also read this guide.

**NOTE**: As the library continues to evolve more refined ways of doing certain things may appear. We'll do
our best to update the materials when possible, but it would be really helpful for you to
file an issue if you notice something is outdated.

## Social Media???

You can follow [@untanglefw](http://www.twitter.com/untangledfw) on twitter.

## Contributing

Untangled is an open-source project that is currently my full-time endeavor. I hope you
find it useful, and I very much appreciate contributions in any of the
following forms:

- Reporting issues, ideally with a reproducible case
- Proofreading the website/documentation. I write fast, and often make misakes [sic].
- A pull request fixing a bug (see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/awkay/untangled/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md))
- Expansions via a pull request (please talk to me first).
- [Donations](https://www.patreon.com/untangledfw): help feed the code monkey!

Commit message:

more website improvemnts. Integrated live version of developer guide

docs/index.md, after:

# Untangled

Untangled is a library for building full-stack webapps using the Clojure and Clojurescript programming languages.
It leverages Om Next and a number of other libraries to provide a strongly cohesive story that has many 
advantages over techniques, libraries, and frameworks you might have used before.

## Is Untangled for me?

Evaluating tools for web development can be a monumental task. Untangled has a particular
set of strengths that may or may not be a good fit. To help you evaluate it, you might want to:

- Read about [the benefits of Untangled](benefits.html)
- Clone and play with the [Untangled Template](https://github.com/awkay/untangled-template) project.
- Clone and play with an Untangled (full-stack!) [TODOMVC](https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-todomvc). NOTE: This uses an older version of the library. It needs updating, but still works).
- Understand [how Untangled improves stock Om Next](vsom-next.html) (assumes you understand something about Om Next)
- Use the [Untangled Evaluation Spreadsheet](evaluation.html)

## What does it look Like?

There is a YouTube video playlist of relatively short videos that can help you get
started quickly and often clarifies things that people struggle with:
[Untangled Video Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLVi9lDx-4C_T_gsmBQ_2gztvk6h_Usw6R)

If you just want to get a quick look of what working in Untangled looks like you might check this one out (it assumes you know what you're doing to some extent, but
ignore the gory details and watch for the coolness):

- [Untangled In The Large - Component Development](https://youtu.be/uxI2XVgdDBU?list=PLVi9lDx-4C_T_gsmBQ_2gztvk6h_Usw6R)

Those who prefer to read should *still* check out the video at some point, but should then
proceed to a complete overview in the
[Getting Started](https://github.com/awkay/untangled/blob/develop/GettingStarted.adoc)
guide. Those that like videos are encouraged to also read this guide.

**NOTE**: As the library continues to evolve more refined ways of doing certain things may appear. We'll do
our best to update the materials when possible, but it would be really helpful for you to
file an issue if you notice something is outdated.

## Social Media???

You can follow [@untanglefw](http://www.twitter.com/untangledfw) on twitter.

## Companion Projects

Untangled has a few companion projects that you should know about:

- [Untangled Spec](https://github.com/awkay/untangled-spec): A BDD testing library that gives you powerful extensions and expressiveness over clj/cljs test. Written using Untangled. Can render hot-refreshed test results in a browser for both client and server!
- [Untangled Template](https://github.com/awkay/untangled-template): A (forkable) repository that has a full-stack starter app, and includes a rename script.
- [Getting Started Files](https://github.com/awkay/untangled-getting-started): A repository that has the source code for the Getting Started Guide.
- [In The Large Files](https://github.com/awkay/untangled-in-the-large): A repository with the source code for the Untangled In the Large videos.

## Contributing

Untangled is an open-source project that is currently my full-time endeavor. I hope you
find it useful, and I very much appreciate contributions in any of the
following forms:

- Reporting issues, ideally with a reproducible case
- Look for things that need testing or additions and do that. See [Status](status.html).
- Proofreading the website/documentation. I write fast, and often make misakes [sic].
- A pull request fixing a bug (see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/awkay/untangled/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTING.md))
- Expansions via a pull request (please talk to me first).
- [Donations](https://www.patreon.com/untangledfw): help feed the code monkey!
