docs/index.adoc, before:

= Untangled Server Docs
:source-highlighter: coderay
:source-language: clojure
:toc:
:toc-placement!:
:toclevels: 3
:sectlinks:
:sectanchors:
:sectnums:

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

ifdef::env-github[]
toc::[]
endif::[]

## Configuration

First, you need to have `defaults.edn` file in your `:resources-path`, this will always be the base configuration data, so make sure the default values are safe for production.
Next you will need to set your `:config-path` in `untangled-make-server` to be a reasonable value for development and potentially production. Note: this can be parameterized, so you can do things like have different paths in development and production.

Example https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-todomvc/blob/master/src/server/todomvc/system.clj#L15[system.clj] & https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-todomvc/blob/master/resources/config/defaults.edn[defaults.edn] from untangled-todomvc.

## Component Injection

To inject https://github.com/stuartsierra/component[components] into the untangled-server's system, add a `:components` map to `make-untangled-server` with keys being the name of the component in your `:parser-injections`, and the value being the component you created with `defrecord` or some function to inject depencies with `component/using`.
Eg:
```
(declare build-hooks)

(defrecord Database [conn]
  component/Lifecycle
  (start [this] ...)
  (stop [this] ...))

(core/make-untangled-server
  ...
  :components {:db (map->Database {})
               :hooks (build-hooks)})
```
see https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-server/tree/feature/documentation#ring-handler-injection[Ring Handler Injection] for the `build-hooks` implementation

## Ring Handler Injection

NOTE: May be subject to change/improvement

There are two locations in untangled-server's pre-built handler stack, https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-server/blob/8dba26aafe36a5f0dab36d0dc89a98f43212df1d/src/untangled/server/impl/components/handler.clj#L176[pre-hook] and https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-server/blob/8dba26aafe36a5f0dab36d0dc89a98f43212df1d/src/untangled/server/impl/components/handler.clj#L170[fallback-hook], that are made publically accessible.
The first step is to create a component that depends (`component/using`) on the `:handler`, and then on start to get and set the desired hook.
```
(defrecord Hooks [handler]
  component/Lifecycle
  (start [this]
    (let [pre-hook (h/get-pre-hook handler)]
      (h/set-pre-hook! handler
        (comp
          ... your-wrap-handlers-here ...
          pre-hook
          ...or-here...)))))
(defn build-hooks []
  (component/using
    (map->Hooks {})
    [:handler]))
```

## API Routes

Simply add an :extra-routes map to `make-untangled-server` with keys `:routes` and `:handlers`.
`:routes` contains a https://github.com/juxt/bidi[bidi] mapping from url route to a key in the `:handlers` map.
`:handlers` is a mapping from handler key (from `:routes`) to a function (fn [env match] ... res)

Eg:
```
(make-untangled-server
  :extra-routes
  {:routes ["" {"/store-file" :store-file}]
   :handlers {:store-file (fn [env match] (store-file (:db env) (get-in env [:request :body]))))})
```

Commit message:

Added snippet on how to use middleware directly

docs/index.adoc, after:

= Untangled Server Docs
:source-highlighter: coderay
:source-language: clojure
:toc:
:toc-placement!:
:toclevels: 3
:sectlinks:
:sectanchors:
:sectnums:

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

ifdef::env-github[]
toc::[]
endif::[]

== Configuration

First, you need to have `defaults.edn` file in your `:resources-path`, this will always be the base configuration data, so make sure the default values are safe for production.
Next you will need to set your `:config-path` in `untangled-make-server` to be a reasonable value for development and potentially production. Note: this can be parameterized, so you can do things like have different paths in development and production.

Example https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-todomvc/blob/master/src/server/todomvc/system.clj#L15[system.clj] & https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-todomvc/blob/master/resources/config/defaults.edn[defaults.edn] from untangled-todomvc.

== Component Injection

To inject https://github.com/stuartsierra/component[components] into the untangled-server's system, add a `:components` map to `make-untangled-server` with keys being the name of the component in your `:parser-injections`, and the value being the component you created with `defrecord` or some function to inject depencies with `component/using`.
Eg:
[source]
----
(declare build-hooks)

(defrecord Database [conn]
  component/Lifecycle
  (start [this] ...)
  (stop [this] ...))

(core/make-untangled-server
  ...
  :components {:db (map->Database {})
               :hooks (build-hooks)})
----
see https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-server/tree/feature/documentation#ring-handler-injection[Ring Handler Injection] for the `build-hooks` implementation

== Ring Handler Injection

NOTE: May be subject to change/improvement

There are two locations in untangled-server's pre-built handler stack, https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-server/blob/8dba26aafe36a5f0dab36d0dc89a98f43212df1d/src/untangled/server/impl/components/handler.clj#L176[pre-hook] and https://github.com/untangled-web/untangled-server/blob/8dba26aafe36a5f0dab36d0dc89a98f43212df1d/src/untangled/server/impl/components/handler.clj#L170[fallback-hook], that are made publically accessible.
The first step is to create a component that depends (`component/using`) on the `:handler`, and then on start to get and set the desired hook.
[source]
----
(defrecord Hooks [handler]
  component/Lifecycle
  (start [this]
    (let [pre-hook (h/get-pre-hook handler)]
      (h/set-pre-hook! handler
        (comp
          ... your-wrap-handlers-here ...
          pre-hook
          ...or-here...)))))
(defn build-hooks []
  (component/using
    (map->Hooks {})
    [:handler]))
----

An alternative to injecting middleware into the global stack is to wrap the function/component that uses that middleware with that handler directly. Here's an example:
[source]
----
(defn wrap-with-user [handler] ;;<1>
  (fn [req] (assoc req :user ...get-user...))) ;;<2>
(defn authorize-request! [req] ;;<3>
  ((-> (fn [req] ...assert-authorized...) ;;<4>
     wrap-with-user
     ...more handlers...)
   req)) ;;<5>
----
<1> Can be your own or from a library (eg: `ring.middleware.*`)
<2> Takes a handler, and returns a fn that takes a req and returns a response
<3> Can be a function, a component, a whatever, so long as it can take request
<4> Wrap/thread your original function into the handlers
<6> DON'T forget to pass the resulting composition of handlers the request

== API Routes

Simply add an :extra-routes map to `make-untangled-server` with keys `:routes` and `:handlers`.
`:routes` contains a https://github.com/juxt/bidi[bidi] mapping from url route to a key in the `:handlers` map.
`:handlers` is a mapping from handler key (from `:routes`) to a function (fn [env match] ... res)

Eg:
[source]
----
(make-untangled-server
  :extra-routes
  {:routes ["" {"/store-file" :store-file}]
   :handlers {:store-file (fn [env match] (store-file (:db env) (get-in env [:request :body]))))})
----
